[MUSIC]
So this lecture, we're gonna talk
about hardware and software systems.
Internet of things devices, are typically
hardware and software combined.
So as we're learning about
the IoT design process,
we really have to think about
how you design hardware,
how you design software, and
how do you design them to work together.
So you can't think of one in isolation,
you really need to think about both
together as you're working on the project.
So IoT devices are a combination
of hardware and software.
There's always a hardware part of
the design and you can see that here,
we've got a bread board.
And the bread board's got
various components on it,
it's got a micro controllers, LED,
voltage regulator, capacitors I see,
a bunch of different things, and
they're all mounted into this bread board.
One part of this design,
one aspect of the design,
is a hardware aspect that you can see
right there and that's basically a bunch
of components that are connected,
wired together in some fashion, okay?
So that's part of the design and
so a designer,
if you're gonna make an IoT device,
you have to think about that part too.
But in addition to that, that alone
doesn't explain what the behavior is.
When you're looking at that
set of devices wired together,
even completely understanding
what each component does,
you can't tell what the behavior of that,
right?
So you have an incomplete view of the
design if you only look at the hardware.
In addition to this, you gotta look at
the software component of this too.
So if you look at the hardware side over
there, you've got at the center of it,
there is this micro controller.
That big black chip dead in the center,
that is the micro controller
which is the heart of the system.
And that micro controller executes code.
And so there's gotta be some code,
some software, which we can see
on the other side of the picture.
Some software that's going to
run on that micro controller.
Now that software is some sample code and
that's actually our Dwino code and
we'll get to that later.
But there's got to be some software
that's running on that micro controller,
that talks to all
the different components.
Talks to the LEDs, tells them when to
turn off and on and things like this.
So there's this hardware side and
this software side and
these things have to work together.
You've got to design both of them.
So what I mean is when
you write the software,
you have to be thinking
about the hardware.
You have to say oh I've got an LED and it
needs to be controlled in this fashion, so
I will write my code in this way.
You have to be consciously aware of
that when you're doing the coding.
Whenever you make a new project, you've
got a bunch of hardware components, right?
You gotta get a bunch of hardware
components and wire them together and
decide on that a priori.
What are the hardware
components going to be?
Now, this is sort of a fundamental
issue with design projects in general,
things change, right.
So at first when you design something, you
have an idea of what the behavior is gonna
be and you think you know
what the components will be.
And then you start doing it,
you get into the design and
often you have to back off track.
You might implement something and realize,
oh you know what I need a different
component this doesn't work for me.
So that can happen,
there's always that risk.
But at the beginning to start building
your system you're going to have to have
some idea of the type of
components that you're gonna need.
So that's always a trial right, to figure
out which components you're gonna buy.
Now, you start with a micro controller,
but you need other components around that.
And each one of these components
has different parameters.
Different sizes for instance, different,
and you might care about that.
You might need this whole design to
fit into a certain space, right?
So you're worried about the size.
Different voltage,
different electrical parameters right,
how much current can this component take,
right?
Maybe this LED can only take 20
milli amps, which is sort of common.
So if you drive it with more than that,
you'll blow up the LED, things like this.
So everyone of these components has these
features that you have to consider before
you order them.
Now back in the old days when I was a kid,
when you wanted to do one of these
projects, you'd go to a store,
Radio Shack which is gone now, you go to
RadioShack and you could buy the parts.
And the people in the store
could help you with the parts.
So they were knowledgeable
about these little parts.
So they would say, oh that chip,
it will do this, but this component,
this resistor is no good for
that purpose or something, right?
They'd give you, they have knowledge
about the different components and
what they did, but
those components don't cost a lot, right?
Switches and things like that, they're
pretty cheap, so stores like Radio Shack,
things like that,
they don't particularly care about
selling those things anymore, frankly.
I mean they sell them, But they don't
make a lot of money off of them,
I get the feeling.
They make money off of
selling cellphone deals, or
something like this, something else.
So you go into these stores and generally,
the people are not knowledgeable about
their components, which means that it is
on is on you to understand these
components of what they do.
So you can't rely, most of the time,
unless you go to a good store and
there are stores like that where you can
get somebody who really knows what he or
she's talking about, but
often, you are on your own.
And another thing too is that these
type of hobbiest electrical stores,
they're rare, they are few and
far between these days.
You can't find stores
that have these parts.
I mean I go to Fry's, things like this,
also other local places, but
it's hard to find these parts.
So often you're buying
these components online.
You go online, you look at websites.
Now these websites,
there are a lot of different websites and
they're very complete,
they have tons of components.
But in some ways, it's sort of data
overload, there are too many components,
too many slight variations.
So you see 100 components
that look similar and
you have to figure out exactly
the one that you want.
And I can't tell you how many times I
thought I wanted a component, I ordered
the component, it comes a week later and
then tada, it is not what I needed.
It is somehow slightly wrong and
now I have to go and order new parts and
cycle through that.
And it is inevitable that will happen to
some extent, so just be ready for that.
But you really wanna minimize that, you
wanna to be able to know before you go and
order these parts, you want to be able
to know that they match your needs,
as well as you can know that.
So that is what data sheets are for.
So, data sheets are basically information
sheets about hardware components and
every component has a data sheet.
The simplest components,
maybe you don't have a data sheet.
For instance, a resistor, actually even
resistors you can probably find data
sheets, but a resistor is so simple you
don't need a datasheet for that, okay?
They have very few parameters,
but any kind of complicated
component will have a datasheet that tells
you all kinds of information about it.
The size, the shape, the inputs, the
outputs, the voltage, all the electrical
parameters, things like this all the data
that you need in order to use it.
So reading these datasheets
is really important.
You can always find data sheets online,
you find the part number, you type
it into Google, the part number, type
data sheet and you will find data sheets.
And they can be very complicated to read,
but
it is important that you be
able to minimally read them.
At least find the important information,
just so you can order the parts you're
gonna need to make these devices
that you will be making.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]